1) at least one variant of Breakout that you thought was interesting and what was interesting about it
The Pinball version of breakout was particularly interesting. The user having control over two levers as well as
the blocks that deflect the ball and never break provide added challenges. The user not only has to control two
separate levers but also has to time when to trigger them and can use that to attempt to aim the ball. Additionally,
the non-breaking block adds a barrier as well as an air of unpredictability to the ball's path. These features
set the Pinball version apart from the original Breakout game and create new challenges for the player.

2) a general description of the different levels you intend to build (perhaps with "pictures" of the block configurations)
    There are general sketches of the levels included in the resources tab.

    Level 1) The first level will contain three rows of blocks covering the horizontal span of the screen about 1/3
    of the way up the screen. There will also be a space one block height between two more rows of block about this,
    covering the horizontal span across the screen. All the blocks will be the basic 1 hit = break. This simple layout
    and beginner block scenario will allow the player to become familiar with the controls and how the mechanics
    of the game work.

    Level 2) The second level will have blocks arranged vaguely like an inverted pyramid. The blocks bordering this
    set-up will require multiple hits. On the sketch, these are represented with numbers inside the blocks which
    indicate the number of hits remaining. It is likely that when I construct the game, I will use the fill color
    of the blocks as indicators of this instead. In this level, the difficulty is increased with the introduction
    of the multiple hit blocks, the fact that there are blocks closer to the paddle and as a result there is less
    reaction time for the player, and the speed of the ball will be increased.

    Level 3) The third level will have a circular block in the center of the screen that will not break and will
    deflect the ball, similar to the one in the Pinball version. It will have blocks surrounding it in a pattern
    similar to a diamond with white space largely interspersed. All the blocks on the internal part of the diamond
    will require multiple hits to break.
3) several different blocks you want to create
    1) Typical block that takes one hit to break
    2) Blocks that take multiple hits to be broken. These will likely be indicated with different block colors
    3) Circular block that reverses the direction of the ball (deflects it) without ever breaking
    Possible 4) Another option is a bomb block that breaks the blocks directly above/below and right/left of the bomb

4) several different power ups you want to create
    Currently, the plan is the have each of these be gained at specific scores. For example, when a multiple of 100
    is achieved, another ball is added.
    1) Temporarily slows down the ball
    2) Another ball is added
    3) An extra life is earned
    4) The paddle can go "around the corner" meaning if it hits the wall is will disappear and reappear at the other
    wall
    5) A second paddle is added that responds inversely to the controls used such that there are two paddles the user
    is controlling simultaneously
    6) The paddle never stops moving such that the controls can only be used to change directions

5) several different cheat keys you are planning to include
    1) A random block is blown up - this will allow for quickly speeding through a level
    2) A point multiplier such that every block that is broken is worth X times amount more
    3) Skip to the next level


6) something extra you intend to add and why you think it is a substantial addition
    I want to add an extra level where the block placement is randomly generated.